------------------------- Half-time evaluation -------------------------
Group: Untitled
Project: Meet a Sweedt - "Fika and Speaka" (Application)


--- Introduction ---
After a lot of different lectures that introduced us to the Scrum process (how task breakdown works 
and general project management), it was finally time to apply all this knowledge into our project. 
  
--- Process ---
	It took us a little while to start with the process, but communicating through our social media channels helped tremendously in discussing our project plan. However, it was clear that simply talking about it wasn't enough. It was after our first real scrum-meeting where we felt that we had a clear plan that we could work towards.

	One thing that naturally happened was that we ended up dividing into unofficial smaller 
	groups that worked with different areas like database, server, GUI, matching system,etc. 
	
	* Challenges
	A challenge we faced at first was that everyone had a lot of different ideas 
	for the application. This resulted in long, circular discussions without really deciding anything. 
	
	Another challenge we faced was to set up the work so that everyone had
	something high-priority to do but still didn't conflict with anyone else's work. 
	This has also made it pretty hard to work in vertical slices and that is definitely 
	something we will try to improve for the remaining duration of the project. 
	Since finding something productive for everyone to do in this currently small
	project was such a challenge, we lost focus on making sure that everyone added customer
	value at the end of the sprint.
	
	* Solution
	The solution to our first challenge was that everyone got their chance
	to present their user-story and the group collectively decided priorities.
	We wrote down compromises and made a list of all the things that needed to be done. 
	After that we ranked every user-story after the importance-levels that we decided.

	It was a little bit harder to find the perfect solution to our other challenge, but we will 
	try to ensure that every person adds customer value at the end of the sprint instead of just picking 
	something at random to do. Hopefully this will ease up the problem by both keeping it in mind and 
	when the project starts to grow in size, the backend becomes more substantial and easy to work with. 
	

--- Product ---
	Like mentioned before, the smaller groups of our team worked with different areas, which
	was needed because of the vertical workflow. Our team had a mix of members that was
	familiar with different aspects while unfamiliar with others. This lead to variations in 
	the progress of assigned tasks and affected the vertical work-flow negatively.   

	The application is a very simple product of the end vision but is still functional. You can navigate 
	the different views, create a profile (still stored locally and not saved between sessions), and see 
	how well you match with other hard-coded profiles and send them chat messages. 
	The server and database is also up and running and although it doesn't add any customer value yet,
	we will move a lot of the locally stored things such as the profiles to the database and implement 
	the server with the chat so that two real people will actually be able to find each other and chat.

	What we have to do is add more planned features, make the app more easy to navigate and integrate a 
	lot of stuff with the database and server.

	After this sprint we have a few tasks that are unfinished. The last sprint we overestimated our
	work velocity which resulted in that a big portion of the tasks worked on were not fully vertically integrated.
	This sprint we will have fewer task, so that we can fully vertically integrate the tasks in the sprint backlog.
	

	We will complete unfinished tasks from the previous sprint:
	- Integrate signing in/ signing up with server
	- Store chat messages in database
	
	We will start with new tasks:
	- Add gps and map functions
